Haixiang: Psalm 23:23 The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. Philippians 4:11 I am not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. 12 I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. If we are to be content with what God has given us, should we still want and pursuit things in life: such as promotion, money, or romantic relationships?

JT: I think we should pursue those things if they glorify God.  With money and stuff, if you want to make more money to give to God or to take care of your family, then that's cool because you are trying to do things God wants you to do.  If you just want more money to use on yourself, then that's not good.  Same with romantic relationships.  If you think that relationship will help you glorify God more, then by all means you should do it.  Also, some people want to get married so they can have kids.  God also calls people to do that, so that seems fine (also, Paul gives the case about purity too.  Getting married can be a way to help with purity).  

Haixiang: So those things can be glorify to God but given that we have not given explicit command to (for example, God does not tell us to make a lot of money, or to date people we like), but didn't it glorifies God more if we instead use our time and energy to do things God has commanded us? To serve the poor, to love everyone (not just the ones we like or the ones that loves us Mathew 5:46). Why should we make those things that we desire as priority in our life over other things God calls us to do?

JT: Those things shouldn't come at the cost of other things God asks us to do.  Like we shouldn't steal to get money for the church, but in our doing what God wants, we will find things we need to do that.  There's nothing wrong with trying to get those things.  If the church needed money for something important and I could get a job to make money for that, why not?  God also gives us many commands that are not explicit.  If we can't do stuff he doesn't explicitly tell us to do, we can't do hardly anything.  Even loving people.  It doesn't say what exactly we should do to love people, but we still have to find ways to do it.

Haixiang: So, regarding "Those things shouldn't come at the cost of other things God asks us to do". Even though we may not do what directly against what God calls us. In many cases, when we surrender our desire, we can give more to God. Money for example, indead, making more money allows us to give more to God, but if we only give 10% to God and keep 90% to ourself to get what we wants, by sacrifies our desire, couldn't we give more? In this sense, our desire seems to come at the cost of the things God asks as to do. Similiarly, when dating, we spend more time to love one person than love more people. Doesn't that come at the cost of that we are unable to love others more?

JT:  In the examples I gave, the desire to make the money was good, even if it's not explicitly commanded.  Obviously, if we want to make money for selfish gain, that's not okay.  Again, we can't disobey God to get the money we want unselfishly, but we can work on it if we want.  Even dating, if your motivation to have a girlfriend is Godly, what's wrong with puting in the effort to make that happen?  If I want to have a wife to help me grow and to learn from and to help me as I serve God, what's wrong with that, or even a wife to help me satisfy my lustful (if I'm not married) desires.  A similar example is what if someone is especially struggling with something and really, really needs someone to talk to.  Is it wrong to 'love them more than other people'?  You could say it's favoritism, but that person needs more love at that time.  Or even if someone asks you for help a lot..  Should you deny them the help because you don't want to spend more time helping them than other people?  Especially if there's nobody else that's actively even seeking that stuff out?

Haixiang: So, when we desire we commonly are want things for our own. If you can think of anyone always only want things for God, I certainly think they are noble person. And yet I knows no one only want things for God. Now, if we are talking about desiring things for ourselves but happens to help God, it would be different. For money, if we only give 10% of our raise to God, then we are 90% help ourselves and 10% helping God. For dating, if we only date people we have feeling for (or attracted to), which only if we have the perfect intuition for what is good qualities to God may we say that our desire is aligned with God. Even so, we still facing the problem that we choice such relationship not based on what we can give but what we can get. I agree that we have limited compacity to give to people. So if we are to make most of it for God, shouldn't we choose whom to help based on who I can help the most, instead of whom I am most closed to? If we choose someone based on their Godly spirituality, doesn't mean that they would need less help spiritually than other less spiritual person? For Mathew 5:46 says: "If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Do not even tax collectors do the same?"

Haixiang: {Scriptures on surrender our desires: [Luke 14:25-35 ESV 25 Now great crowds accompanied him, and he turned and said to them, 26 “If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother and wife and children and brothers and sisters, yes, and even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. 27 Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. 28 For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it? 29 Otherwise, when he has laid a foundation and is not able to finish, all who see it begin to mock him, 30 saying, ‘This man began to build and was not able to finish.’ 31 Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and deliberate whether he is able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand? 32 And if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. 33 So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple.], [1 John 2:15-17 ESV / 31 Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.], [Matthew 16:24 ESV / 31 Then Jesus told his disciples, “If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.], [Mark 10:21 ESV / 20 And Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said to him, “You lack one thing: go, sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.”], [Mark 8:35 ESV / 14 For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake and the gospel's will save it.], [Matthew 6:19 ESV / 11 “Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal,]}

Haixiang: I want to clarify one question: If our goal is to do our best to serve God, then isn't every choice we make trying to maximizing what will serve God the best?

JT: I don't think desire is a pure evil thing.  In these examples, these are people that have desires that conflict with what's right.  (not wanting to give to the poor, puting family above God, and even the counting the cost is talking about weighing the cost of a decision, not getting rid of desire entirely).  Our desire can still drive a lot of what we do, as long as the intent behind that desire is good.  Like the examples I gave before.  If you want to make more money to give the church more money, and that's actually your intent, then that's a good thing for you to do.  No problem wanting money for that purpose.  Even in 2 Corinthians Paul tries to encourage the church to give money, but that's not wrong because he wants it for God.  Make sense?

Yes, I agree with you that if what we want is to give to God, it is certainly a good thing. But so often what we desire are not purely for god. How many of us want a raise because we want to give all the extras to God? Or even majority of the extras? Or how many people want to date someone because they believe that is the best way for them to serve God? Or maybe want money to buy things for ourselves or want to date someone we like is to serve God?

Josiah: I'm going to jump in here and suggest that God actually promotes people enjoying themselves. In some cases this serves an additional spiritual purpose in others a spiritual purpose isn’t so clear. 
„And Nehemiah, who was the governor, and Ezra the priest and scribe, and the Levites who taught the people said to all the people, "This day is holy to the Lord your God; do not mourn or weep." For all the people wept as they heard the words of the Law. Then he said to them, "Go your way. Eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone who has nothing ready, for this day is holy to our Lord. And do not be grieved, for the joy of the Lord is your strength." So the Levites calmed all the people, saying, "Be quiet, for this day is holy; do not be grieved." And all the people went their way to eat and drink and to send portions and to make great rejoicing, because they had understood the words that were declared to them.“
‭‭(Nehemiah‬ ‭8:9-12‬)
At Cana Jesus made water into wine because his mom didn’t want the party to run out of alcohol even though his time had not yet come. (John 2:1-12)
For an ascetic Jesus always seem to eating or drinking.
 „The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, 'Look at him! A glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners!' Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds." (Matthew‬ ‭11:19‬ )
The four gospels tell stories of Jesus feeding crowds no less than six times. (Matthew 14:13-21; Mark 6:31-44; Luke 9:12-17; John 6:1-14, Matthew 15:32-39, Mark 8:1-9)
After the resurrection, the apostles find Jesus chilling on the beach grilling fish. (John 21:1-14)
On the road to Emmaus the disciples recognize Jesus by the way he breaks bread. (Luke 24:13–35)
I think that there are greater goods than our own pleasure and far more important things that we should seek, but I don't believe than considering what we want is necessarily against God's Will. 
