Note: CS Lewis's essay "the humanitarian theory of punishment" has touched similar concept. I would recommand reading it. (JT: Is there a link for that somewhere?  I think we should try to provide sources for stuff if we can.  That way this is a complete place for everything)

Haixiang: Sometimes we face the problem that to love someone, we will have to harm them. In this discussion, I will assume that we are not consequentialists, i.e., that we do not judge the good or evil of an action simply based on its outcome. But then the question is, under what circumstances is it good to harm some?

JT: Depends what you mean by harm..  I think what you mean is a short-term harm for a longer-term help.  Is that right?  An example of where it would be good to do that is punishing a kid for doing something wrong, or not giving someone something that you think will harm them when they want it.  More generally, I'd say I think you should do that anytime you think the short-term harm will give them some long-term spiritual growth.

Haixiang: When I said harm, I meant bring negative effect to someone. It could be short term or long term. But given that our emotion is usually short term response. Let's restrict the conversation to short term. Now, let's consider, I honestly think lottery can make a lot of money, To help people I started a investment foundation for the poor, and collect money from them, and promised them that when we win the lottery the pot will be split based on contribution. I made a honest promise and is going to keep it when we win the lottery. Is what I am doing good?

JT: The harm stuff makes sense.  I think in your example, the person did what was right, if they really believed that was the best way for them to make money.  He can't really be blamed for his lack of knowledge.  If he's doing his best to do something right, then that's all he can do.  Obviously, it would be more helpful to the poor if he found a more productive way of making money, but God just cares about the heart, not about the actual yield.  Mark 12:41-44 is a perfect example of this.  The widow is praised not for how much she gave, but for her heart in doing it.  In addition, 2 Corinthians 8:10-12 is also similar.  In verse 12, Paul says "For if the willingness is there, the gift is acceptable according to what one has, not according to what one does not have".  In other words, if you have the willingness to give, the amount isn't really important.  What's important is that you have the willingness to do it.  As far as this relates to love & harm, you can never be sure if what you're doing is actually going to help or not, but your intent is what counts.

Haixiang: So, this is interesting. if I understand correctly, given the scripture you quoted, you consider knowledge just as material goods. Your point is that we cannot be blamed for what we do not have. But in many ways, we can, couldn't we. If someone does not give because he is poor, it is important to know why he is poor. Because if he is poor because he is lazy and wish not to work, he is certainly to be blamed for not giving. I think the same for wisdom. We may not to be blamed not to have the knowledge to make the right choice, but we are certainly to be blamed if we are not making an effort in seeking the knowledge so we can do good. if you would agree with me (if not, we shall continue untill we reach agreement on knowledge), the next question would be: shouldn't we do our best to seek the knowledge that our actions is actually for the good of the others especially when it would harm them?
